# CPSC304-RelationalDatabase
Project Proposal The main objective for our project is to design a database that accommodates a music organizing/sharing application. The domain we are going to model is the music domain (not mp3 files, just information relevant to music). Specifically, the kind of information that is stored about songs for organizational purposes in a database. The aspects of the music that we will be modelling include the information relevant for the organization of songs. This includes things like the artist and album that a song may belong to, name of the artist, name of the song and the specific genres that a song could be included in. There will also be different types of playlists which sorts the songs/albums into specific categories based on the user who creates them. The main benefit of using a database in our application is that it allows us to efficiently organize the large amount data required for our application. We are also able to reduce the amount of time needed for queries (ie searching for a song as a listener or adding a song to the database as an artist). To further elaborate, by using a database we are able to provide functionalities such as having two distinct classes of users in the system: the users who uses the platform to listen to songs and the artists who are able to upload their songs or albums. The users will be able to rate songs, favorite songs and find specific songs based on the songs attributes (ie songs from 2010 or songs by a particular artist). The users will also be able to create and manage playlists, as well as viewing playlists other users have created. In contrast, artists are unable to rate or favorite songs but they will be able to add their songs to the database as well as categorize their own songs into specific genres. Our project will be done using Java and JDBC along with the CS department’s oracle database. We hope to create a web-based application, or at least simulate such application with our project (given the time permitted). We do not anticipate the need for any special software or hardware.
